# <span style="color: #117CD9"> My personal portfolio 📂 - Marc-Antoine Tremblay </span>

This portfolio was created as my second project in the Concordia Bootcamp. The goal of the project is to showcase my web development skills using HTML, CSS, Javascript and the React library. This portfolio originaly started with a white page and gradually transformed into a full website presenting myself and my work. 

## ✏️ The visuals

I used some online free tools to create the visual and took inspiration from some other web developper personal portfolios. The colors were sourced on Adobe Color UI trends section, and the fonts have been carefuly chosen from a selection generated by ChatGPT to represent my theme.

 I wanted to create a fun and interactive page, that not only presents myself but captivate the user's attention. I used green and blue colors to add eye catching elements to the page and put everything on a cozy background color. The user can change from a bright mode to a night mode to his preferences. 
 
 My other priority to catch visitors attention was to make most elements interactive with hover effects and a scroll effect that will give a full opacity to the sections as they enter the window.

 ## ✳️ React elements

 I used some React hooks that i learned during the bootcamp to make my functions and elements interactive and efficient. The useState hook was my most used, one of the uses for that hook is to toggle the light and dark modes when the user clicks the button. I also used the useEffect and useRef hooks to make it possible to change the opacity of the sections as they enter the page. In the future, I plan to developp a backend server for the portfolio and use fetch to get my elements and post the email. 

 ## 🔜 Future of my portfolio

 I have some plans to update my portfolio when I will graduate from the bootcamp. First, I will add a backend servers for the data manipulation and make it possible to send an email to my email address with the already created form. I will also change the showcased projects with the next projects I develop in the bootcamp or personal projects. I plan on changing the visual of that section as I am hesitant about how it looks. 